# DH110 - 02 - Laudan Hosseini
# Pilot Usability Test 
## Introduction 

The Audiobooks HQ app is designed to provide anyone access to over 500,000 texts that they can purchase and listen to. The user is able to downnload the text on the app and listen to it at varying speeds, playback times, and volumes. This app is especially favorable for groups that have the desire to read but do not have the eye strength, energy, or time to do so. This app hopes to make reading much more accessible, portable, and easy by having users to just listen to the text being read to them. 

After analyzing this application with all 10 heuristics, I noted that the overall efficiency, clarity, and aesthetic of the app can be greatly improved. The bright orange theme and fonts used are not very pleasurable to look at and make it less enticing to interact with the app's features. The font even hinders the readability of the app as a whole. In addition, a lot of the symbols used can be very confusing to new users, such as the "moon" symbol, which is meant for having the text be read for a set amount of time (ranging from 10 to 90 minutes). The app also does not have strong enough updates to users, such as if downloads fail or percentages of texts downloaded. The overall lack of clarity can raise a lot of questions for users; however, there is also not a strong help center set up in the settings. There are no video tutorials, FAQs, or a help search engine to assist users as efficiently as possible. These are the main criticisms of the app, which is why I wanted to set up the usability testing tasks around these issues. 

This UT would help evaluate a user's initial reactions to these issues, which can then point to actions for improvement. The user in this trial will participate in 3 tasks. The first task will test the app's readability based on its overall aesthetic and fonts. The participant will be asked to search for a specific book and find out its price and related readings based on its genre. The second task aims to test the app's error prevention and match with system and real world. The participant will be asked to download that particular reading and select a 20 minute playback time. Lastly, the third task aims to test the app's help and documentation by having the user go to the settings and change the skip back time and to have the user try to find a help center. 

## Methodology 

The materials needed for this UT are just one computer (with working cameras and microphones), the "Photobooth" application on Mac, the Google Survey, and the Audiobook HQ app on a phone that is able to screen record. The moderator (me) and participant will be sitting side by side in a quiet area outside, with the moderator recording the  session on Photobooth and the participant screenrecording on an iPhone with the Audiobooks HQ app shown. I will then read through all of the instructions, consent form, pre-test questionnaire, 3 tasks, post-test questionnaire, and demographic questionnaire, and then record the participant's answers. This is a pilot trial, so it will allow for future improvements to be made to any software or processes to the usability test. The survey is meant to encapsulate the entirety of a usability trial, so it is important to contain all of the elements for the participant to give consent and follow through all tasks. The demographic portion ofthe survey will not be recorded and will thus remain confidential. 

## Survey 
Click [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe-4bd216p-AAIbl58SPru5aoJfpVWMpisGud-uNfdTYsOgQQ/viewform?usp=sf_link) to access the link to the survey. 
## Video 
Click [here]( to access the video recording of the UT session.
## Reflection 

I think that overall, this was a pretty smooth UT session despite it being the first time doing so for both me and the participant. It was initially difficult to figure out how to record everything so both the app and the participant's reactions would be shown at the same time, but I quickly discovered a solution (screenrecording the app on the iPhone). I think the instructions seemed clear to the participant and it was not difficult for her to follow the script throughout. Based on the participant's answers, however, I believe she found the app to be unnecessarily complex, and it was hard to complete some of the tasks correctly. For instance, the second task could not be done correctly, as the download for the Hunger Games reading kept saying "Unavailable" (this was not planned for). In this case, I had to think on my feet and ask the participant to download a different free text. Furthermore, one main difficulty overall was choosing my friend as a participant, as it was hard not to laugh in the beginning or remain a sense of professionalism throughout. If I were to conduct UT sessions for this app in the future, I would probably choose someone I am not as close with or someone who fits the target audience a bit better (i.e. a senior citizen). 
